# Code Linting

We use  **markdownlint** (<https://github.com/igorshubovych/markdownlint-cli>) to enforce
good code syntax in our repository.

If you write your documentation using VSCode, which I recommend, you can install an
extension to lint-check your `*.md` files as you write them.  Check out  
<https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=DavidAnson.vscode-markdownlint>

The Markdown markup language is designed to be easy to read, write, and understand.
It succeeds - and its flexibility is both a benefit and a drawback. Many styles are
possible, so formatting can be inconsistent. Some constructs don't work well in all
parsers and should be avoided. For example, here are some common/troublesome Markdown
constructs.

markdownlint is a Visual Studio Code extension that includes a library of rules to
encourage standards and consistency for Markdown files. It is powered by markdownlint
for Node.js which is based on markdownlint for Ruby.

## Installing markdownlint

<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
**I recommend that you test locally with lint before committing and publishing with CI/CD**
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->

To install markdownlint for local testing, make sure you have the java packaging tool
`npm` installed on your local machine, then
execute the following.

```bash
npm install -g markdownlint-cli
```

## Running lint locally

Execute this command from the root of your document repository

```bash
markdownlint src
```

## Disabling Lint Rules

Please refer to the markdownlint source repository
<https://github.com/DavidAnson/markdownlint>
for a discussion on how to use the `options.config` file to globally disable a
particular lint rule that causes you issues (a good example might be MD013 which
complains if line length is greater than 80).  The `markdownlint-cli` tool accepts
an argument `-c` to point to your config file.

For the line length example mentioned above, the simple options file to disable the
rule looks like this

```json
{
  "MD013": false
}
```

The command to invole the lint check with the suppressed rule is

```bash
markdownlint -c options.config src
```

## Tweaking Lint Rules

Rather than disabling the line length rule altogether, it migt be a better idea to put
a reasonable value that picks up excessively long lines without becoming annoying.  A good compromise
is to set the value to 200.  I find 80 a bit extreme.  This is what my modified options rule
file looks like:

```json
{
  "MD013": {
    "line_length": 200
  }
}
```

## Overriding Lint In Situ

If you have code that is simply going to have to contain a linting violation,
one can suppress it by putting the following directives around it.

```markdown
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
any violations you want
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
```
